# Kafka Authentication Plugin

This repository contains the Java source code implementation of an Apache Kafka plugin
that performs client authentication against an external source such an an LDAP server.
When configured to use this plugin, the Kafka broker will perform user authentication
against the external source using the username and password provided by the Kafka client.

## Prerequisites

* Java JDK 15 or higher

## Getting Started

The Kafka Authentication plugin build produces a Java jar file which must be added to
the Kafka broker classpath.  To produce the jar file using a local build command:

```
./gradlew clean build jar -x test
```

The result is the `build/libs/kafka-authentication-plugin-<version>.jar` which contains
all the class files which implement the SASL callback handler.  This jar file
must be added to the classpath of the Kafka broker prior to starting the server.
You can do this by either copying the jar file into the `$KAFKA_HOME/libs`
directory or by setting the classpath environment variable:

```
export CLASSPATH="/path/to/jar/kafka-authentication-plugin-<version>.jar"
```

### Configuring the Static Authentication Plugin

The plugin is configured by setting the following properties in the Kafka `server.properties` file:

* `listeners` = localauth://localhost:9094<br/>

* `listener.name.localauth.plain.sasl.server.callback.handler.class` = com.sas.kafka.auth.KafkaStaticAuthenticationHandler<br/>

* `auth.static.credentials` = credential1 credential2 etc<br/>
  List of static credentials to authenticate against.  The credentials
  must be specified as a space-delimited list in the following format:<br/>
  `username:base64salt:base64password`
  This credential string can be generated by using this `generateCredentialProperty.sh`
  script at the root of this project.

### Configuring the LDAP Plugin

The plugin is configured by setting the following properties in the Kafka `server.properties` file:

* `listeners` = ldapauth://localhost:9095<br/>

* `listener.name.ldapauth.plain.sasl.server.callback.handler.class` = com.sas.kafka.auth.KafkaLdapAuthenticationHandler<br/>

* `auth.ldap.server.url` = ldap://ldap.yourcompany.com:389<br/>
  LDAP server address.  The format is `protocol://hostname:port`

* `auth.ldap.bind.dn` = DC=COMPANY,DC=com<br/>
  LDAP bind DN for the account used to query the server

* `auth.ldap.user.id` = username<br/>
  LDAP username for the account used to query the server

* `auth.ldap.bind.password` = password<br/>
  LDAP password for the account used to query the server

* `auth.cache.enabled` = false<br/>
  Enable the authentication cache.  The authentication cache
  can be used to reduce the number of queries performed against
  the LDAP server.  It can also help prevent user lockouts due
  to failed authentication attempts.  The default value is `false`

* `auth.cache.history.maxDepth` = 10<br/>
  Maximum number of user authentication attempts to keep in the cache.
  This correponds to the unique number of usernames that have attempted
  to authenticate.  The default value is `10`

* `auth.cache.history.maxAge` = 600000<br/>
  Maximum age of authentication attempts to keep in the cache (in milliseconds).
  The default value is `600000` milliseconds (10 minutes).

### Enabling Logging

To configure Log4J logging for the plugin, edit the `log4j.properties` file
typically found in the `/etc/kafka` directory:

```
log4j.rootLogger=INFO, stdout, kafkaAppender, requestAppender, authorizerAppender

log4j.appender.authorizerAppender=org.apache.log4j.RollingFileAppender
log4j.appender.authorizerAppender.File=${kafka.logs.dir}/kafka-authorizer.log
log4j.appender.authorizerAppender.MaxFileSize=10MB
log4j.appender.authorizerAppender.MaxBackupIndex=5
log4j.appender.authorizerAppender.append=true
log4j.appender.authorizerAppender.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
log4j.appender.authorizerAppender.layout.ConversionPattern=[%d] %p %m (%c)%n
```


## Contributing

We welcome your contributions! Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to submit contributions to this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE).

## Additional Resources

* [KIP-86](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=65874679): Configurable SASL callback handlers
* Confluent [Apache Kafka Security](https://developer.confluent.io/courses/security/authorization/) course

## Alternatives

There are several open source alternatives to this library:

* [ultratendency/kafka-ldap-integration](https://github.com/ultratendency/kafka-ldap-integration/)
* [apache/rancher](https://github.com/apache/ranger/tree/master/plugin-kafka)
